It’s the World Cup and David Beckham is
playing brilliantly against Argentina.
In the second half, Beckham was fouled by
midfielder, Digeo Simeone , who rammed him
in the back and knocked him down.
Beckham, while still lying on the ground,
retaliated in anger with a kick, right in
front of the referee.
He was kicked out and England was forced to
play with only 10 men the rest of the game.
They ended up losing in a penalty shoot out.
Beckham’s momentary loss of control cost
England its chance to win the most important
game of the year.
Being able to maintain control is one of the
most important tools an elite athlete can
possess and it is one of the secrets to mental
toughness.
It is a secret because most athletes think
the opponent is on the other team…
The truth is the real opponent is you vs.
you and your mind.
Any loss of control can disrupt not only your
performance, but your entire teams as well,
as we saw in the Beckham incident.
The great news is that you can be in control
anytime you want if you commit to some simple
mental practices with the same determination,
you use to develop your physical skills.
Soccer and really any sport, is an emotional
game and players must go into a game prepared
for cheap shots and trash talking.
Sometimes, it may not even be just your opponents
that trigger a loss of self-control.
Coaches, teammates and even your own thinking
can be just as destructive, if not more.
One mental toughness secret to being in control
is to have a plan in your head for what you
will do when the inevitable trash talking
or foul happens.
Before you ever step on the field, you must
mentally practice how you want any situation
to play out that leads you to getting your
best results.
To do this, think about times in the past
when you have lost control and examine why
it happened.
It does not matter if it happened in practice,
scrimmaging or in a game.
As you think about those times, ask yourself
what really caused you to lose control?
When you figure that out, then question yourself
about your reaction…
Was it worth it?
What did I gain from that?
Did I really have to lose it like that?
Could I have done something different?
Could I have ignored it?
Now here is the important question, “How
could I handle myself differently the next
time something like this happens?”
Your plan will start to formulate and I recommend
you actually write it down or journal your
findings and commit yourself to this new way
of handling yourself.
You’ve got to make this a high priority
just like you do with your training and conditioning.
Remind yourself of the benefits, not only
to yourself, but your teammates in developing
this mental toughness secret.
Having self-control means not letting your
emotions sidetrack you in competition.
It is hard to fight your emotions in the heat
of the battle.
You will most-likely have the ability to keep
your wits, if you follow the plan you developed
and practiced in your mind.
There are athletes that are victims of their
thoughts and emotions and then there are the
elite athletes who master them.
Which side will you be on?
After the big loss to Argentina, Beckham was
trashed in the British papers.
Soccer fans throughout the country were throwing
darts at his picture and he faced boos everywhere
he went the next season.
As you know, he exhibited extreme mental toughness
by coming back strong and becoming one of
the most popular players in the sport.
The other mental toughness secret is to NEVER
give up…on yourself!
Resource box
********************
Craig Sigl is the #1 Mental Toughness Trainer
for youth sports.
Visit: TeenMentalToughness.com to get your
free video training and .mp3 on how to “Master
The Pressure” in competition.
Also receive a free ebook: “The 10 commandments
for great sports parents.”
(Replace TeenMentalToughness.com with any
URL landing page.
Every landing page has the optin to get those
free downloads.)